
## ==**Motivation**==

If you study and learn the concepts in this book, you will be on your way to becoming the rare power programmer who knows how things work and how to f ix them when they break. You will be able to write programs that make better use of the capabilities provided by the operating system and systems software, that operate correctly across a wide range of operating conditions and run-time parameters, that run faster, and that avoid the flaws that make programs vulnerable to cyberattack. You will be prepared to delve deeper into advanced topics such as compilers, computer architecture, operating systems, embedded systems, networking, and cybersecurity

## ==**Introduction**==

- The book focus on system that execute x86-64 machine code.

**How did computers and CPUs evolve from 8bit to 64bit systems ?**
	 Well , As semiconductor technology has evolved to allow more transistors to be integrated onto a single chip, these processors have progressed greatly in their computing power and their memory capacity. As part of this progression, they have gone from operating on 16-bit words, to 32-bit words with the introduction of IA32 processors, and most recently to 64-bit words with x86-64.

- The book considers how machine execute the C program on Linux system.

>Linux is one of a number of operating systems having their heritage in the Unix operating system developed originally by **Bell Laboratories**. Other members of the Unix system are (Solaris, FreeBSD, and MacOS X)

- The book assumes you have prior knowledge in C or C++
  
>Transition from other languages like Java would be easy since C is a small language along with reading a book like The C programming book would make it easy for new C programmers

- The book consists of 12 chapters designed to capture the core ideas of computer systems (compilers, computer architecture, operating systems, embedded systems, networking, and cybersecurity)

### Chapters

*Chapter 1 (A Tour of Computer Systems) [[A tour of computers systems]]*: This chapter introduces the major ideas and themes in computer systems by tracing the life cycle of a simple “hello, world” program.

*Chapter 2 (Representing and Manipulating Information)*:
	- Computer arithmetic, emphasizing the properties of unsigned and two’s-complement number representations that affect programmers
	- How numbers are represented and therefore what range of values can be encoded for a given word size.
	- The effect of casting between signed and unsigned numbers.
	- The mathematical properties of arithmetic operations
	- Use the bit-level operations of C to demonstrate the principles and applications of Boolean algebra
	- The IEEE floating-point format in terms of how it represents values and the mathematical properties of floating-point operations.

*Chapter 3 (Machine-Level Representation of Programs):*
	- How to read the x86-64 machine code generated by a C compiler
	- The basic instruction patterns generated for different control constructs, such as conditionals, loops, and switch statements.
	- The implementation of procedures, including stack allocation, register usage conventions, and parameter passing.
	- Cover the way different data structures such as structures, unions, and arrays are allocated and accessed.
	- The instructions that implement both integer and floating-point arithmetic.
	- Use the machine-level view of programs as a way to understand common code security vulnerabilities, such as buffer overflow

*Chapter 4 (Processor Architecture)*: This chapter covers basic combinational and sequential logic elements, and then shows how these elements can be combined in a data path that executes a simplified subset of the x86-64 instruction set called “Y86-64.” 
	- The design of “Y86-64.” 
	- Introduction to pipelining
	- The control logic for the processor designs using HCL lang

*Chapter 5 (Optimizing Program Performance)*: This chapter introduces a number of techniques for improving code performance
	- Reduce the work to be done by a program
	- Enhance the degree of instruction-level parallelism in the generated machine code
	- Introduce a simple operational model of how modern out-of-order processors work, and show how to measure the potential performance

